note(Review these examples to see every box style available in the template.)

definitionbox(A function assigns exactly one output to each input in its domain.)

conceptbox(Average speed describes the total distance traveled per unit of time.)

notationbox(Let d represent distance, t represent elapsed time, and v represent average speed.)

objectivebox(By the end of this lesson, calculate average speed and explain the units in your answer.)

contextbox(Measuring motion helps us compare journeys, plan travel times, and describe experiments.)

connectionbox(Average speed connects the slope of a distance-time graph to a physical measurement.)

summarybox(To calculate average speed, divide total distance by total elapsed time and include units.)

question(A cyclist travels 120 meters in 10 seconds. What is the cyclist's average speed?)

answer(The cyclist's average speed is 12 meters per second.)

examplebox(A walker covers 30 meters in 15 seconds, so the average speed is 2 meters per second.)

solutionbox(
Step 1: Identify the distance as 120 meters and the time as 10 seconds.
Step 2: Divide 120 by 10 to obtain 12.
Step 3: Report the average speed as 12 meters per second.
)

practicebox(A runner covers 200 meters in 25 seconds. Calculate the average speed and state its units.)

recallbox(Without looking at your notes, explain the difference between distance and displacement.)

hintbox(Start with average speed = total distance / total time.)

misconceptionbox(Average speed is not always the arithmetic mean of two speeds; the time spent at each speed matters.)

askbox(How does average speed differ from instantaneous speed on a journey with several stops?)

actionbox(Complete three speed problems and check that each final answer includes units.)

reflectionbox(I can calculate average speed, but I need more practice interpreting changes in graph slope.)

formulabox(Average speed = total distance / total elapsed time.)

theorembox(For constant speed, distance is proportional to elapsed time: doubling the time doubles the distance.)

proofbox(At constant speed v, the distance after time t is v * t. After time 2 * t, the distance is v * 2 * t, which is twice the original distance.)

derivationbox(Start with v = d / t. Multiplying both sides by t gives d = v * t.)

assumptionbox(Assume the cyclist moves at constant speed and the measured elapsed time is greater than zero.)

givenbox(Given: distance = 120 meters and time = 10 seconds. Find: average speed in meters per second.)

unitsbox(Distance is measured in meters (m), time in seconds (s), and speed in meters per second (m/s).)

checkbox(Check the result: 12 meters per second multiplied by 10 seconds gives the original 120 meters.)

specialcasebox(If elapsed time is zero, distance divided by time is undefined and cannot be used to calculate speed.)

hypothesisbox(A toy car released from a higher ramp position will have a greater average speed over the measured track.)

variablesbox(Independent variable: release height. Dependent variable: average speed. Controls: car, track length, and track surface.)

equipmentbox(Use a toy car, an adjustable ramp, a meter ruler, a stopwatch, and a notebook.)

procedurebox(
1. Measure a 1-meter section of track.
2. Release the car without pushing it.
3. Record the travel time over the measured section.
4. Repeat three times at each release height.
)

observationbox(The car reached the end of the measured section sooner when released from the higher position.)

databox(Example travel times over 1 meter: trial 1 = 1.2 seconds; trial 2 = 1.1 seconds; trial 3 = 1.3 seconds.)

uncertaintybox(Manual stopwatch timing introduces reaction-time uncertainty; repeated trials help reveal variation.)

analysisbox(The mean travel time is 1.2 seconds. Dividing 1 meter by 1.2 seconds gives an estimated average speed of 0.83 meters per second.)

conclusionbox(The example results support the hypothesis that a higher release position increases the car's average speed.)

claimbox(The fictional town should improve pedestrian access near its school.)

evidencebox(In a fictional class survey, 18 of 25 students reported using the same narrow sidewalk on their walk to school.)

quotationbox(In the fictional survey, one student wrote: "The sidewalk is too narrow when everyone arrives together.")

interpretationbox(The survey suggests that crowding is a shared concern rather than an isolated experience.)

counterargumentbox(Widening the sidewalk may reduce space available for parking and require additional funding.)

comparisonbox(A wider sidewalk increases walking space, while a timed arrival schedule spreads pedestrian traffic across the morning.)

timelinebox(Example project timeline: week 1, collect feedback; week 2, compare proposals; week 3, present recommendations.)

casebox(In a fictional school project, students mapped busy crossings and proposed a supervised crossing point.)

vocabularybox(Accessible: easy to reach or use. Infrastructure: the basic facilities that support a community.)

grammarbox(Use the comparative form to compare two things: "This route is safer than the other route.")

codebox(
distance = 120
time = 10
speed = distance / time
print(speed)
)

outputbox(The speed calculation prints 12.0. Add a label when presenting the result: 12.0 meters per second.)

debugbox(A ZeroDivisionError occurs when time is zero. Validate that time is greater than zero before dividing.)

designbox(Keep input validation separate from the speed calculation so each part is easier to understand and reuse.)

testbox(Input: distance = 120 and time = 10. Expected result: speed = 12. Include a separate test that rejects a time of zero.)

figurebox(Imagine a distance-time graph with time on the horizontal axis and distance on the vertical axis. A straight rising line represents constant positive speed.)

techniquebox(Estimate a graph's slope by choosing two clear points and dividing the change in distance by the change in time.)

feedbackbox(The calculation is correct. Improve the explanation by naming the formula and showing the units in the final answer.)

warning(Check that all distances and times use compatible units before calculating speed.)

danger(Keep the toy-car track away from stairs and walkways to prevent trips or falls.)
